---
title: "R2PS: Worst-Case Robust Real-Time Pursuit Strategies under Partial Observability"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2026-R2PS
excerpt: 'Runyu Lu, **Ruochuan Shi**, Yuanheng Zhu, Dongbin Zhao'
date: 2026-01-27
venue: 'The 14th International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR 2026)'
---

Computing worst-case robust strategies in pursuit-evasion games (PEGs) is time-consuming, especially when real-world factors like partial observability are considered. While important for general security purposes, real-time applicable pursuit strategies for graph-based PEGs are currently missing when the pursuers only have imperfect information about the evader's position. Although state-of-the-art reinforcement learning (RL) methods like Equilibrium Policy Generalization (EPG) and Grasper provide guidelines for learning graph neural network (GNN) policies robust to different game dynamics, they are restricted to the scenario of perfect information and do not take into account the possible case where the evader can predict the pursuers' actions. This paper introduces the first approach to worst-case robust real-time pursuit strategies (R2PS) under partial observability. We first prove that a traditional dynamic programming (DP) algorithm for solving Markov PEGs maintains optimality under the asynchronous moves by the evader. Then, we propose a belief preservation mechanism about the evader's possible positions, extending the DP pursuit strategies to a partially observable setting. Finally, we embed the belief preservation into the state-of-the-art EPG framework to finish our R2PS learning scheme, which leads to a real-time pursuer policy through cross-graph reinforcement learning against the asynchronous-move DP evasion strategies. After reinforcement learning, our policy achieves robust zero-shot generalization to unseen real-world graph structures and consistently outperforms the policy directly trained on the test graphs by the existing game RL approach.
